Let X be a topological space; let A be a subset of X. Suppose that for each x in A
there is an open set U containing x such that $U \subseteq A$. Show that A is open in X.

Define topology $\Gamma$ of the set X and the set $Z := \{U \in \Gamma : U \subseteq A\}$. By definition of a topology, $\bigcup Z \in \Gamma$. Now we show $\bigcup Z = A$. ($\implies$) Let a be arbitrary and suppose $a \in A$. By our hypothesis, there is an open set Y where $a \in Y$ and $Y \subseteq A$. It follows that $Y \in Z$. But then because $a \in Y$ and $Y \in Z$ for arbitrary a, we see that $A \subseteq \bigcup Z$. ($\Longleftarrow$) Let a be arbitrary and suppose $a \in \bigcup Z$. Then there is some $Y \in Z$ where $a \in Y$. For $Y \in Z$, it must be that Y is an open set with $Y \subseteq A$. It follows that $a \in A$. But a was arbitrary, so $\bigcup Z \subseteq A$. Therefore, we have shown $\bigcup Z  = A$. We know $\bigcup Z \in \Gamma$ and so $A \in \Gamma$. Thus, A is open in X. **Q.E.D**

Show that the collection $\Gamma_c$ given in Example 4 of ยง12 is a topology on the set X ($\Gamma_c = \{U : U \subseteq X \land (X - U = X \lor X - U \text{ is countable}\}$). Is the collection $\Gamma_{\infty} = \{U : X - U \text{ is infinite or empty or all of X}\}$ a topology on X?

Trivially, $\emptyset \subseteq X$ and $X - \emptyset = X$ and so $\emptyset \in \Gamma_c$. Also trivially, $X \subseteq X$ and $X - X = \emptyset$ and because the empty set is finite, $X \in \Gamma_c$. Define arbitrary non-empty family $\{U_\alpha \}_{\alpha \in J} \subseteq \Gamma_c$. Notice, $X - \bigcup_{\alpha \in J}U_\alpha = \bigcap_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_{\alpha})$. But $X - U_{\alpha}$ is countable or X itself for all $\alpha \in J$ according to our definition. Two cases exist, there is some $\alpha_0 \in J$ such that $X - U_{\alpha_0}$ is countable or $\forall \alpha \in J (X - U_\alpha)$ is X itself. Case 1: there is some $\alpha_0 \in J$ such that $X - U_{\alpha_0}$ is countable. It follows that $\bigcap_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_{\alpha}) \subseteq X - U_{\alpha_0}$ and so $\bigcap_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_{\alpha})$ is also countable. Case 2: $\forall \alpha \in J (X - U_\alpha)$ is X itself. But this just means $\bigcap_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_{\alpha}) = X$. Therefore, $\bigcap_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_{\alpha})$ is either countable or X itself and so it is contained in $\Gamma_c$ by definition. Suppose $\{U_\alpha \}_{\alpha \in J} \subseteq \Gamma_c$ was finite. Notice $X - \bigcap_{\alpha \in J}U_\alpha = \bigcup_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_\alpha)$. Two cases exist, there is some $\alpha_0 \in J$ such that $X - U_{\alpha_0}$ is X or $\forall \alpha \in J (X - U_\alpha)$ is countable. Case 1: there is some $\alpha_0 \in J$ such that $X - U_{\alpha_0}$ is X. We know $\forall \alpha \in J (X - U_\alpha \subseteq X)$ and so $\bigcup_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_\alpha) = X$. Case 2: $\forall \alpha \in J (X - U_\alpha)$ is countable. It follows that the finite union of countable sets is also countable. Therefore, we know $\bigcup_{\alpha \in J}(X - U_\alpha)$ is either X itself or countable and so in $\Gamma_c$. Thus, we have shown $\Gamma_c$ is a topology.

False. Suppose $X = \mathbb{R}$. It follows that $\emptyset, \mathbb{R} \in \Gamma_\infty$. By definition, we see that $\mathbb{R}^+ \in \Gamma_\infty$ since $\mathbb{R} - \mathbb{R}^+$ is infinite. Similarly, $\mathbb{R}^- \in \Gamma_\infty$. Now define the family $\{\mathbb{R}^+, \mathbb{R}^-\} \subseteq \Gamma_\infty$. Notice, $\mathbb{R} - \bigcup \{\mathbb{R}^+, \mathbb{R}^-\} = \{0\}$ which is finite, not empty, and not equal to X meaning $\bigcup \{\mathbb{R}^+, \mathbb{R}^-\} \not \in \Gamma_\infty$.  **Q.E.D**

7)

Show that the collection $\{\{a\} \times (b, c) \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2 : a,b,c \in \mathbb{R}\}$ of vertical intervals in the plane is a basis for a topology on $\mathbb{R}^2$.

Lets call $\beta := \{\{a\} \times (b, c) \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2 : a,b,c \in \mathbb{R}\}$. Define arbitrary $(f, g) \in \mathbb{R}^2$. Let $B = \{f\} \times (g - 1, g + 1)$. It follows that $B \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ and so $B \in \beta$. But $(f, g) \in B$ also and since $(f, g)$ was arbitrary, $\forall x \in \mathbb{R}^2 \exists B \in \beta (B \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2 \land x \in B)$. 
Define arbitrary $(f, g) \in \mathbb{R}^2$ and $B_1, B_2 \in \beta$. Suppose $(f, g) \in B_1 \cap B_2$. It follows that $B_1 = \{f\} \times (y, z)$ for some y and z and $B_2 = \{f\} \times (n, m)$ for some n and m such that $(f, g) \in \{f\} \times (y, z)$ and $(f, g) \in \{f\} \times (n, m)$. Let $B_3 = \{f\} \times (max(y, n), min(z, m))$. Notice, $B_3 \in \beta$. Also, by definition, $y < g < z$ and $n < g < m$, so $max(y, n) < g < min(z, m)$ giving $(f, g) \in B_3$. Suppose arbitrary $(j, k) \in B_3$. It follows that $j = f$ and $max(y, n) < k < min(z, m)$. Then $y < k < z$ and $n < k < m$ indicating $(j, k) \in B_1 \cap B_2$. But $(j, k)$ was arbitrary and so $B_3 \subseteq B_1 \cap B_2$. Therefore, we have shown $\forall x \in \mathbb{R} \forall B_1, B_2 \in \beta (x \in B_1 \cap B_2 \implies \exists B_3 \in \beta (x \in B_3 \land B_3 \subseteq B_1 \cap B_2))$. Thus, we have shown that $\beta$ is a basis for a topology on $\mathbb{R}^2$. **Q.E.D**

Show that if A is a basis for a topology on X, then the topology generated by A equals the intersection of all topologies on X that contain A. Prove the same if A is a subbasis.

